
# Quantitative Marketing Analyst Project for Carvana

## Objective

The main objective of this project is to analyze our marketing data, specifically focusing on user click data and subsequent user actions leading up to sales. Each click event is associated with a specific marketing channel, and the task is to attribute user actions to these channels. Analysis will help us understand the relative performance of each channel.

## Dataset Description

There are five datasets provided in CSV format in the data folder that will be preloaded in the starter code. These datasets encompass various aspects of our marketing data. A brief description of each dataset is as follows:

1. **Click Data**: This dataset contains all click events that lead users to Carvana.com from various paid marketing channels.
    - click_datetime
    - channel_id
    - user_id

2. **Lock Data**: This dataset contains all locks done by users:
    - lock_id
    - lock_datetime
    - user_id

3. **Sale Data**: This dataset contains all sales:
    - user_id
    - lock_id
    - sale_datetime
    - sale_id
    - gross_profit

4. **Spend Data**: This dataset contains daily marketing spend:
    - date
    - channel_id
    - spend

5. **Ad Channels**: This dataset contains all information for each marketing channel:
    - channel_id
    - channel_name

## Task

We are interested in understanding the relative performance of each marketing channel in 2022 to inform our course of action for the next year. To do so, we need to understand the economics of each channel, with metrics such as Cost total Per Click (CPC = advertising spend divided by total clicks), Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC = advertising spend divided by sales), and Return on Investment (ROI = gross profit divided by advertising spend).

Additionally, we want to know if there are any partnerships or even individual campaigns which are under or overperforming so that we can act appropriately.

Important: We will perform this analysis using first-touch attribution, which in marketing terms means identifying the first interaction a user has with our brand and linking it to any later user actions. This involves manipulating the provided datasets to locate the first click each user made through our marketing channels and associating it with any subsequent locks and sales.

## Questions to Answer

### Performance & Economics

1. What category of channel has the lowest cost per click?
2. What are the top three partnerships in terms of sales generated by first touch attribution?
3. Which campaigns had the most month-over-month percent growth/decline in sales generated from Oct to Dec?
4. Which partner is the most cost-efficient, i.e., has the lowest CAC?
5. Which category of channel has the best ROI? The worst?

### Incrementality

6. On average, how many different channels do customers interact with prior to locking a car?
7. What percentage of sales don't have a click within 90 days prior to the conversion? How can we explain this?

### Open Ended

8. Based on what we know about channel performance, what recommendation would you give for reallocating spend given we are increasing the budget by 20% next year?

## Calculation Equations

- CPC = Spend/Total Clicks
- CAC = Spend/Sales
- ROI = Profit/Spend

## Finding of the Project:
[carvana marketing data analysis.pdf](https://github.com/ayushmeher/Marketing-Data-Analysis/files/14159337/carvana.marketing.data.analysis.pdf)
